# MtruncDualRNASeq2024
Data and code repository for dual RNAseq project with Medicago truncatula

This repository holds scripts and data associated with the study found at ____.

The snakemake directory contains the script needed to download data from the Sequence Read Archive and the snakemake script to perform the bioinformatic analyses outlined in the publication.

The DGE directory contains all the scripts and data necessary to take the output of the snakemake pipeline, and perform the various differential expression and Gene Ontology overrepresentation analyses outlined in the publication. Within the DGE directory, the samples.csv file contains sample information necessary to perform analyses in the PrimaryAnalysis.R script. There are also sudirectories (Medicago, Nematode, Rhizobe21, Rhizobe22) that contain the count data (output of snakemake pipeline) and annotations for each organism. The DGE direcotry contains count data output from the snakemake pipeline and HTSeq-union as well as genomic annotations (see publication for detailed sources of these annotations). The PrimaryAnalysis.R script is the first script that should be run and performs a number of differential expression analyses and outputs the results of these analyses into a large table in the out directory. See the publication supporting information for details about these analyses and the naming convention of columns in this file. The PrimaryAnalysis.R script also calls the Quality Check.R script which outputs various quality control metrics into the out directory as well. Final Figures Fig1.R, Final Figures Fig2.R, and SupFig1.R scripts can be run after PrimaryAnalysis.R script has been run and will output figures in the out directory, many of which are found in the publication. The SupplementalDatasets.R script can be used to generate the datasets found in the supporting information of the publication and must be run only after PrimarilyAnalysis.R script has run. GO Enrichment Analysis.R and GO Enrichment Analysis with Parents.R are two scripts that run Gene Ontology enrichment analyses and output the results to the out directory. These scripts will create a EnrichmentDatabase directory that will house SQL databases needed to perform the analyses. The Utility Scripts directory contains various utility scripts that may be used for data exploration. Many of these scripts may require running the PrimaryAnalysis.R script first.
